{"changed":true,"filter":false,"title":"README.md","tooltip":"/README.md","value":"# Neville Sexton - Author Website\n\nCode Institute - Milestone Project1: User Centric frontend Development.\n\nMy project is an author website. It serves two functions: firstly to act \nas shop window to potential readers, displaying books, videos and information\nrelevant to the author, and secondly, as a landing page whereby the author can grow\nan email subscriber list based on a free book offering when email details are supplied. \nIt's designed to be responsive on all devices. \n\n\n## Deployment\n\nThe site is hosted on GithHub Pages at https://github.com/nevdevtrev/project1-author-site.git\nShould you wish to clone this simply use git clone https://github.com/nevdevtrev/project1-author-site.git \nin your terminal. \n\nYou can see the published live site [here] (https://nevdevtrev.github.io/project1-author-site/)\n\n## Technologies\n\n1. HTML\n2. Boostrap\n3. Flexbox Grid System\n4. CSS3\n5. JavaScript\n\n\n## Design - UX\n\nThe design concept for this site was essentially this - 'clean and simple'. The purpose for the site was two-fold: firstly\nas a shop window to the authors catalogue of books and contact information, but equally as a funnel for building up\na readership emailing list. An author's lifeblood is their readers so being able to compile an ever-growing contact \ndatabase of their readers/fans is an essential tool for any author's marketing toolbox. To facilitate higher \nsubscriber turnover I placed a simple email-input bootstrap toast component on the initial landing page to the website. This is closeable,\nand ignorable, for any exisiting subscribers but is front-of-house for all new visitors to the site. \n\nThe site is designed as a mobile first single, multi-sectioned, page with top navigation bar links (collapsible on small devices) to books, events, media,\nblog, contact and author information. Sections are reached through a smooth scrollspy effect, again keeping the user\nexperience as simple and pleasant as possible. I've also utilised a fixed footer for quick access to author social links.\n\n### Design Features\n\nThe core features implemented were built upont the flexbox grid layout system and include: bootstrap toast input, bootstrap popovers \n(only on larger screens) and scrollspy - with the addition of a java based smooth scrolling feature. \n\n### Future Features\n\nThe main expansion of the current site will be to build and link an SQL database backend to the current email subscription toast. Also the \nintention will be to modify the current book presentations into a carousel as more and more books become availble for sale. \n\n## Testing\n\nTesting was ongoing throughout the build and design process. Many iteratrions of layout were tried and often sidelined as difficulties and \nchanging preferences were met. I had some real fundamental issues with nested classes and section structuring, particularly with bleeding \ncontent from divs when viewing on different portals. This was a highly frustrating recurrence which reduced my progress to a snail's pace,\nbut ultimately proved surmountable. Finally grasping just how divs, containers and their content interoperate pushed me past those initial \nfrustrations, allowing me to get on with design. Using Chrome developer tool proved instrumental for this transition.\n\nThe toast used for email subscriptions has been tested for the input components, namely that the email added is (a)correct format and (b) \nnot blank, and that the final checkbox selection is made. If not adhered to an error message will inform the user. \n\nBook links implemented with target=\"_blank\" have been tested for new tab opening, bringing the user to the respective websites without\nlosing the authorsite.  \n\nPopover links have been tested so that they appear on top (data-placement=\"top\") and that they close (data-trigger=\"focus\") when clicked \noutside the element. \n\nThe final layout was tested across multiple devices (using the developer's tool (chrome and firefox)) and on a variety of browsers. \nMedia queries have been used where necessary for various layout tweeks and preferences for larger screens. In some cases these have been \nused so that certain columns and divs are only visible on larger screens, while in other circumstances they're used for simple \nformatting variations. \n\n\n## Academic Pedigree\n\nThis project was completed as part of a quarterly module for The Code Institute Diploma in Full Stack Software Development.\n\n## References/Credits\n\n### General Content\n\nAll of the content supply and design aspects were implemented and brought together by myself using a combination of The Code Instite course material, \nwww.w3schools.com and www.getbootstrap.com. The only aspects indirectly added pertain to the javascript functionality which I've yet to \nundertake as part of The Code Institute Diploma.\n\n### Pictures\n\nThe underlying pictures used for the landing page website background and blog section were obtained from https://www.pexels.com \nand https://unsplash.com. However these were heavily modified by myself using the image manipulation capabilities of MS Powerpoint\nto build these into the layered and tailored final product seen on the website.\n\nThe book covers for the self-published books were designed by me using 'free license images' found through google, and subsequently\nmodified again through MS Powerpoint.\n\n### Videos\n\nThe video documentary from ABC TV was supplied directly to me from the TV Network which I subsequently added to my youtube channel.\n\nThe personal tribute video to my beautiful son Craig was created by me using defacto microsoft video software and added to my youtube \nchannel.\n\n### Acknowledgements\n\n* Smooth scrollspy effect tutorial, which utilises JavaScript was found at csstricks.com\n* www.w3schools.com and www.getbootstrap.com were referenced heavily to bring this together\n* I had looked at several author websites as inspiration, including http://www.neilgaiman.com. These were a good beacon but ultimately\n  I could only emulate inline with my current level of capability. I tried...\n\n","undoManager":{"mark":7,"position":9,"stack":[[{"start":{"row":0,"column":14},"end":{"row":0,"column":15},"action":"remove","lines":["e"],"id":1},{"start":{"row":0,"column":13},"end":{"row":0,"column":14},"action":"remove","lines":["l"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":12},"end":{"row":0,"column":13},"action":"remove","lines":["t"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":11},"end":{"row":0,"column":12},"action":"remove","lines":["i"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":10},"end":{"row":0,"column":11},"action":"remove","lines":["T"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":9},"end":{"row":0,"column":10},"action":"remove","lines":[" "]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":8},"end":{"row":0,"column":9},"action":"remove","lines":["t"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":7},"end":{"row":0,"column":8},"action":"remove","lines":["c"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":6},"end":{"row":0,"column":7},"action":"remove","lines":["e"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":5},"end":{"row":0,"column":6},"action":"remove","lines":["j"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":4},"end":{"row":0,"column":5},"action":"remove","lines":["o"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":3},"end":{"row":0,"column":4},"action":"remove","lines":["r"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":2},"end":{"row":0,"column":3},"action":"remove","lines":["P"]}],[{"start":{"row":0,"column":2},"end":{"row":0,"column":3},"action":"insert","lines":["N"],"id":2},{"start":{"row":0,"column":3},"end":{"row":0,"column":4},"action":"insert","lines":["e"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":4},"end":{"row":0,"column":5},"action":"insert","lines":["v"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":5},"end":{"row":0,"column":6},"action":"insert","lines":["i"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":6},"end":{"row":0,"column":7},"action":"insert","lines":["l"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":7},"end":{"row":0,"column":8},"action":"insert","lines":["l"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":8},"end":{"row":0,"column":9},"action":"insert","lines":["e"]}],[{"start":{"row":0,"column":8},"end":{"row":0,"column":9},"action":"remove","lines":["e"],"id":3},{"start":{"row":0,"column":7},"end":{"row":0,"column":8},"action":"remove","lines":["l"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":6},"end":{"row":0,"column":7},"action":"remove","lines":["l"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":5},"end":{"row":0,"column":6},"action":"remove","lines":["i"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":4},"end":{"row":0,"column":5},"action":"remove","lines":["v"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":3},"end":{"row":0,"column":4},"action":"remove","lines":["e"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":2},"end":{"row":0,"column":3},"action":"remove","lines":["N"]}],[{"start":{"row":0,"column":2},"end":{"row":0,"column":3},"action":"insert","lines":["N"],"id":4},{"start":{"row":0,"column":3},"end":{"row":0,"column":4},"action":"insert","lines":["e"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":4},"end":{"row":0,"column":5},"action":"insert","lines":["v"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":5},"end":{"row":0,"column":6},"action":"insert","lines":["i"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":6},"end":{"row":0,"column":7},"action":"insert","lines":["l"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":7},"end":{"row":0,"column":8},"action":"insert","lines":["l"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":8},"end":{"row":0,"column":9},"action":"insert","lines":["e"]}],[{"start":{"row":0,"column":9},"end":{"row":0,"column":10},"action":"insert","lines":[" "],"id":5},{"start":{"row":0,"column":10},"end":{"row":0,"column":11},"action":"insert","lines":["S"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":11},"end":{"row":0,"column":12},"action":"insert","lines":["e"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":12},"end":{"row":0,"column":13},"action":"insert","lines":["x"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":13},"end":{"row":0,"column":14},"action":"insert","lines":["t"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":14},"end":{"row":0,"column":15},"action":"insert","lines":["o"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":15},"end":{"row":0,"column":16},"action":"insert","lines":["n"]}],[{"start":{"row":0,"column":16},"end":{"row":0,"column":17},"action":"insert","lines":[" "],"id":6},{"start":{"row":0,"column":17},"end":{"row":0,"column":18},"action":"insert","lines":["-"]}],[{"start":{"row":0,"column":18},"end":{"row":0,"column":19},"action":"insert","lines":[" "],"id":7},{"start":{"row":0,"column":19},"end":{"row":0,"column":20},"action":"insert","lines":["A"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":20},"end":{"row":0,"column":21},"action":"insert","lines":["u"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":21},"end":{"row":0,"column":22},"action":"insert","lines":["t"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":22},"end":{"row":0,"column":23},"action":"insert","lines":["h"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":23},"end":{"row":0,"column":24},"action":"insert","lines":["o"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":24},"end":{"row":0,"column":25},"action":"insert","lines":["r"]}],[{"start":{"row":0,"column":25},"end":{"row":0,"column":26},"action":"insert","lines":[" "],"id":8},{"start":{"row":0,"column":26},"end":{"row":0,"column":27},"action":"insert","lines":["W"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":27},"end":{"row":0,"column":28},"action":"insert","lines":["e"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":28},"end":{"row":0,"column":29},"action":"insert","lines":["b"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":29},"end":{"row":0,"column":30},"action":"insert","lines":["s"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":30},"end":{"row":0,"column":31},"action":"insert","lines":["i"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":31},"end":{"row":0,"column":32},"action":"insert","lines":["t"]},{"start":{"row":0,"column":32},"end":{"row":0,"column":33},"action":"insert","lines":["e"]}],[{"start":{"row":22,"column":16},"end":{"row":22,"column":17},"action":"remove","lines":["1"],"id":9},{"start":{"row":22,"column":15},"end":{"row":22,"column":16},"action":"remove","lines":["."]},{"start":{"row":22,"column":14},"end":{"row":22,"column":15},"action":"remove","lines":["3"]},{"start":{"row":22,"column":13},"end":{"row":22,"column":14},"action":"remove","lines":["."]},{"start":{"row":22,"column":12},"end":{"row":22,"column":13},"action":"remove","lines":["4"]},{"start":{"row":22,"column":11},"end":{"row":22,"column":12},"action":"remove","lines":[" "]}],[{"start":{"row":26,"column":0},"end":{"row":28,"column":14},"action":"remove","lines":["6. MS Powerpoint - for image creations","7. Fontawesome","8. Googlefonts"],"id":10}]]},"ace":{"folds":[],"scrolltop":0,"scrollleft":0,"selection":{"start":{"row":26,"column":0},"end":{"row":26,"column":0},"isBackwards":false},"options":{"guessTabSize":true,"useWrapMode":false,"wrapToView":true},"firstLineState":0},"timestamp":1564642834453}